---
layout: post
title: Chap 6 - Leave
tags:
- Family
- Personal
- English
---

Family, parents. I decide to leave. Pointless arguments. I still remember that what they did to me in the past. Forgive to let us have a future, but soon they have not taken any lesson. My father keep saying to me that I am a woman and should accept that I am a woman. My mother keep behaving like nothing happens to me with a very long indifference. Most of the time , our conversation would not last for more than ten minutes because she never asks me anything or answers me such thing. Always like closed topics.

When they say that they want me to be happy, I am wondering whether they know what love is and what happiness is when comparing me to others. People who grow up in rural areas and my old sisters whose children are even older than me. I am really tired of such things, especially when they repeat in many years. Every time I try something new and fail, my father always remind me who I am a woman, a person who is less competitive than a man. I remember that though he is proud of himself as a chief engineer, he never teaches me any knowledge in Math and Science. Indeed, almost everything.

Today I asked again whether they remember what happens that day. No, they say no. I asked them whether they remember that I went to the hospital because of an idea of suicide. No, they say no. I asked them whether they remember that they did not attend my graduation which is only for the best in the school and my picture with the Dean is posted on the school website. No, they say no. Every time I trying to tell my miserable situation. They keep ignoring and keep talking. The only thing that they are trying to not to look bad and continuously saying a lot. So, they confirm that they do not want me to stay at home. Speechless...

I would not regret that my trip back to Vietnam in two years. I put them first because they are my family. I would want their wishes to my career as a researcher. I would need them to understand and stay by my side whenever I face a lot of upcoming challenges. But foremost, I would like to stay aside with my younger brother when he begins his career. There will be up and down. That’s all I want. Again, they fail me terribly. I had to leave home after 4 months of living with them. Till now it has been a year. My younger brother avoids me even he has not got a job yet. Wondering whether he knows "market" or a game of "old people" that he has to wait at home until submitting some transaction fee for "the system". Probably, he does not like his “monster elder sister”, especially when she already become a manager at his age.
