---
layout: post
title: Chap 04 - How I start with Neural Net
tags:
- Grad school
- Python Community
- English
---

Another night that I cannot fall to sleep. The left part of my head become dizzy and I feel vomiting after reading the seventh rejection letter. A short fight happens between my mother and me after that. Suddenly I realize that this topic would never end, so I move out quickly and remind her a reason why I am staying with for this week - Only in this week.

I have been preparing my mind for any consequences for these admissions. Clearly, I know that a possibility is very small to get through any door, but keep being positive. No matter what happens and will happen, I still believe that I am born in the right time of history. There is a plenty of open resources that I can learn and earn experience. Computing power is becoming cheaper and cheaper. Globalization and technologies allow me to interact with people around the world in any culture and any country with a very little barrier. Those are what I feel three years ago when deciding to leave academia and start my own adventure.

The first time when I acknowledge about “neural net” was talking to a friend in an event and trying to describe my recent research project. It was about constructing a simple model of biological neural networks and studying a diffusion process of water molecules based on it. Indeed, it was the only project I felt interested and applied for an internship in a master program. Why? At that moment, I was very obsessed with neuroscience and a human brain. Many things I was doing was attached to this subject. Reading paper of applying topological data analysis to study hippocampus. Doing a project of fixing topological deficit of 3D brain by using Henri Poincare theorem. Following a series of online learning material on Coursera and EdX such as computational neuroscience and MCB80.1x. My initial plan for a period of time in PhD training was about building a bridge between mathematics and neuroscience. However, the only thing he mentions similarities between mine and what he understands. It was not clear to me so that I almost forgot until a friend of mine using his statistical language after hearing my high-level description of what an ultimate goal of research.

After that moment, there was something sparkling in me. In spare time, I spent time on Coursera and used the internet as the main resource to search for ideas. Until one day, there was something very weird happens in my mind - a voice asking me what I was doing. Then, a series of strange things come to me. I tried to relax and hang out with friends, but it could not stop me from searching and reading. Then many threads appeared. I started to know somebody in somewhere pursuing something like mine. A book of Michio Haiku. A topic of researching connectivity and functionality. A paper on a generative adversarial network. Still, I remember the last conversation between me and a researcher in privacy and security.  I In the middle of a conversation, I asked him about something able to decode captcha, which a mechanism to test a human in a computer. Could not remember vividly a content, but there is a picture in my mind, a several of character pictures, and an exercise that I did in a topology class to classify those things based on a number of connectivity components and a question why human can understand different shapes and color instances as one set. After that conversation, the voice urged me to leave academia and start my own search. And I did.

I had booked a ticket to visit family in a couple of days. It was for visiting but then became a leaving trip. At Changi airport, I asked myself again why I made such a decision. I had a life with lots of friends and a bright future in Singapore. I told myself that I tried so hard to get into a PhD program; this time I leave Singapore, should not I come back to this land and even academia. One week later, a strange woman sent me an invitation for a PhD in economics at Harvard Business School. I was very surprised but I made a vow and then tried to ignore as nothing happened. I was glad that I failed another PhD recruitment in France. Only applied to learn more about what they did because the topic was very appealing to me. If they have had accepted me, I would not know how to write a rejection email.

Come back to Vietnam, I did try to learn a bunch of things to help me gain more knowledge and experience. I purchased a MATLAB license and some computing packages including neural networks, parallel computing, optimization and many others that I can not remember. I complete a Machine Learning course by MATLAB program and some tutorial to learn data science on Kaggle in R. I thought it would be enough and ready to join a game. How naive I was. It turned out the most popular language at that moment used in Deep Learning Research is Python and C/C++. Though I complete a lot of hands-on tutorials and online course, I can not get a sense of how to use Python on my computer for a real use. It was only when I have to conduct a very larale computer, I totally acknowledge how important it was. Eventually, it led me to a trip to America.
