---
layout: post
title: Chap 5 -
tags:
- Galvanize
- Bay Area
- English
---

If anyone asks me about what I have learned so far from the American Culture, I would say it is all about learning to fail and standing up. No pain, no gain. It is a signature which makes this land become more special than any other country. No matter who you are and where you are from, there will be a chance for you to thrive there.

When starting to work on data science, there are so many questions, but I can not find anyone help. This eventually led me to two directions. The first choice. Apply to some companies working on what I want to learn. The second choice. Moving to somewhere else which had more supportive and dynamic environment. I tried both very hard by intensively searching and applying to many companies and programs around the world. A few of them replied to me. A few of them found me. I got through doors of some of the most “star” companies such as Google Asia and Misfits as well as passed the first round of two best data science program in America which are “Data Incubator” and “Data Immersive Program”. After a lot of trials, I found myself most matching to Galvanize program, especially with a partnership with IBM.

The process is very painful and time-consuming. There are at least four rounds. The first is CV screening. The second is a home assessment which will take you three hours to complete. Next are at least two interviews with data science resident and lead instructor before you are qualified to be considered for an admission. For a foreigner like me, even after I was qualified for an admission, I have to wait for months to get a visa, then be able to be considered for any kind of financial support including intuition and scholarship. The amount of time and effort I invested into this opportunity was tripled. Accidentally, it allowed me to live in the city of the bay in the most exciting period of time with lots of conferences, schools, hackathons and tech events. And I was very luck to interact and connect to lots of people.
