---
layout: post
title: Chap 03 - The future
tags:
- Grad school
- Python Community
- English
---

The future. Something seems so uncertainty to me, especially in the next period of time. After spending months of debugging a source code of a new result from NIPS 2017. I’ve confirmed a necessary of building a Python community to learn and share with each other more important than any other community, e.g. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence. And glad that I make a step to initialize an open-source learning Python group, Pyladies, to help people get started with Python better than me in the past.

The story begins with Scipy, one of the most well-known scientific libraries in Python. It has been a foundation of many other open-source packages well as on top of many others. Recently, Scipy has changed significantly by moving a lot of image functions as an individual open-source project. In addition, Numpy, a crucial part of several open-source packages, has been deprecated some functions especially for a newer version of Python.

I do not know and simply think that those are just minor issues, so keep updated everything followed the source code. It works for a while until I realize that there is something strange. Under a more very careful inspection in several days, I narrow down that the problem coming from a confliction of Python packages. It takes me many stressing days again to figure it out and understand an importance of unit tests. Nevertheless, it works and allows me to move to the next step of design experiments to test ideas.

Tomorrow will be marked for the 6 months for this research. And I feel something very close. The gut feeling tells me that I am hitting to something. Well, even it would have not right, keep trying. It’s my job as a researcher. A quest for a knowledge seeker.

Time flies. Three years since the day I leave Singapore. What have I done so far? Read several textbooks and accomplished a bunch of online courses. Hundreds of paper - Hope that. Completed an intensive 3-month training course to upgrade me from a theorist/ mathematician to a data scientist working in a start-up in 9 months. One 6-month online course + 2 online conferences + 1 2-day school with top researchers + 1 developer conference + top 1% in an international AI Healthcare competition + 1 teaching course. Those are not really pleased me as a researcher. What I need is to make a contribution to a field’s progress despite my status. And I am very close to put my stone on the top of the mountain.

Becoming an academic living in the ivory tower initially is not my first choice, but I made a vow. And now it is my first choice. No matter which school I will be, let’s pray for an environment I will be. Hope that I will match to a good supervisor who we will help each other to combat hindrances.

Enlightenment.
