---
layout: post
title: Chap 01 - A night of sleeplessness
tags:
- Learning
- Experience
- English
---
Another night I can not sleep. Trying to come up with something that makes my mind work and reduce the pressure on the left hemisphere. I buy some two bottle of apple ciders with two different flavors, and hope that it would make me sleep peacefully while writing this note.

For some reason, I believe there is an invisible force trying to seize my fate. I try to ignore and stay focused on the current work. All-in. Research. Professor. Academia. Made a vow and had to full-fill it.

Remember that I made numerous mistakes in the past. Perhaps it is the only privilege for me when I am still young.Some of them make me down, some of them make me up. Eventually, it makes me become who I am today. No regret. And I believe those are necessary for my learning process. Be a better version of me.

Nice and lazy since I was a kid. Most of my relative think that I would not be a successful person because I was not fit to my family pop culture. Nonetheless, I made them astonished when excelling in academics and extracurricular activities by ranking first in class and school and competition of chess and art without any special extra-intensive learning outside the classroom. Indeed, I refused all of them. It was natural to me, especially I was interested in it. Mathematics came to me in that way when I was ten. It was the first time I feel the beauty of this wonderful subject. Gradually it became a part of me till now.

But my parents still keep saying no matter how excellent you are, when you grow up, you will become less competitive than men. Everything I failed at something, my father reinforced that message immediately. I started to believe, especially when entering a gifted school. I used to feel like I am useless despite a lot of contrary evidence that was getting a lot of good grade by myself, even the best grade in the most difficult math exercise despite “compromising and cooperating to survive”.

I started to feel that I did not fit the school anymore and wanted to try out new things. I love to help people and join a lot of volunteering activities in school such as charity group, school newspaper, and design. And eventually, those make me more skillful and experienced than any of my friends. People started to promote me as a leader. And finally, somehow this path help accumulate enough experience to manage several projects including two funded by National University with around 100 participants in overall. And finally, I became a managing director of a start-up company at age 23.

The story of that start-up was very interesting. I know the CEO of the company from a non-profit organization which I work for two years as manager. There was a time he traveled to Vietnam to do a short-term training for our team. He introduced himself as a Ph.D. student learning in Psychology with a background in electronic engineering. I was very interested because I had a long time interest in psychology too and trying to find out something to start with. I ask him whether he had any project that we can work with. And then invite me to one him around one year later. Then I don’t know how, but finally, he gave me a job as manager of his company. And then later on, when the company grows, as a managing director.

But then I left. I told that CEO. After spending a period of time as a researcher, I know who I am - a knowledge seeker. That feeling was very strong that every day I wake up and think of a scenario that I have to come back my home country followed my family will, I could not stop crying.

There was a time when I was 15, somebody asked me about what I would dream of being. “I don’t know. Becoming a scientist, I would have very little money, whereas I would earn a lot of money as a businesswoman” The answer was clear to me that moment when I decided to leave a managing position to be a graduate student. But then, I left a program before one week started to work on my own research with no support and my very limited fund.

Such a painful decision. But I knew I was chasing - could not see it but felt it. That voice kept talking to me.
