---
layout: post
title: A story of a struggling Asian woman
tags:
- Reflection
- Woman
- English
---
On the train from Berkeley back to Union City, I found a prominent human rights event happening US national wide on last weekend. There would be thousands of people marching in downtown to speak on multiple topics on genders, equal rights, immigrants, and related issues.

So many questions needed an answer. Nonetheless, there was one thing that I painfully had to admit - a myth rumored in my family about fate as a woman - why would a woman never succeed anything but must follow and depend on a man?

**Model of the world**

In Asian Culture, we have a strong sense of responsibility and duties passing from generations to generations. A society is built on top of values of the family - a husband/ a father - a pillar and a wife/ a mother - a supporter. This story has been told several times by parents, relatives, folks, and then massive media with movies, and drama.

A longtime belief that a father, then a teacher, then a King/ a Boss are people who control and make a decision in a family, a community, and a nation. Though as my country early adapt Western Progressive philosophy, still these values rooted deeply in society.

My father was an example. He belonged to the first generation of idealists in Vietnam. Born and educated in the war to be an engineer, then dedicated his life for the government, but could not change his point of view towards women - nice-to-have, but not must-have. Every new year when talking to friends, a seventy-year-old man repeated over and over -  it would be total a waste of time, money and effort to invest in girls because there would be no return.

**How to be a good girl**

Since I was a kid, many times, my parents told me about the fate of a woman with a family, a husband, and a son. Then, all of my relatives said to me about their children when they should have a boyfriend and the firstborn. Anybody who is good at school is considered to be selfish because they care about themselves and therefore have a terrible consequence.

Most of the topics my friend talked to me all about how to dress, makeup, get a boyfriend and married. Degrees, by whatever level, are just a decoration to help girls find a good spouse, but not aimed to have a career.  

Despite excelling in academic, my family and relatives did not pay attention to any reward and recognition. They don’t even bother to attend any ceremony or celebration at all. Most of the time, I was alone on a stage with highest positions.

**Double standard**

In the workplace, I used to be seen as moving flower pottery - to decorate and make an environment more exciting. One of my friends admitted when he was trying to hire some female engineers. Male colleagues often treat female colleagues as sweet little sisters to do all chores and small stuff without any recognition. They don’t take us seriously and not encourage speaking up our opinions.

To be so kind then be bullied by others. To be so assertive then be so aggressive. To be neutral then no one would care. Such politics. The best action would be silent and docile.

In the past, we have a model of King - teacher, and father. Now it’s boss - teacher and father, uncle, brother, any male person. Who dares to speak up would be suppressed by authority and violence. Many times I was hit by my parents because of not obeying them. Many times when I talked to family, but the end of a conversation was all about seniority. Many times my opinion was ignored by most people around me.

**Back to America**

A month after US Government shutdown because of 5.7 billion dollars for border security, still no further progress from both democrats and republicans to end this situation. People are still stuck in reality show directed by a Tweet-drama president. Such a period that politics news becomes more entertaining than soap opera.

Two years ago, I was accidentally in San Francisco when Americans voted for the next president. It was the final round between two elected candidates from two parties. Many of us thought that there was nothing to say because it was a clear win. But history turned into a very different page with a very unusual name. It reinforced my father’s message again - A reflection of his world on a large scale.

My mother, sisters, and friends could not escape a bias of depending on a man to start their own lives. I understand that I am one of the first luckiest people who have both cognition of modern society and able to execute ideas despite living in an adversarial environment.

One thing that I feel appreciate is a value of education. To me, it is not a decoration, not a ticket to get a good job or a good husband, but a self-development as well as an essential preparation for life. I don’t suffer this pain alone. Many other women are trying to find their true calling. Nevertheless, those voices are so little in this big world.

Together, women and minority can find a solution for all of us. Simply by small actions to your mother, sisters and friends. Let us speak up, share experience, help each other to be independent and self-controlled regarding finance and life. This amplification will raise motivation and confidence to fight against that bias and make this society be a better place for all.

Very likely first efforts will fail despite how hard we try, but an attitude and willingness will lighten to next generations and ignite the rest of the world.

"all men are created equal" - MLK
