---
layout: post
title: A reflection of a YOLO year
tags:
- Self-learning
- Reflection
- English
---
Around one year ago, I took a flight across oceans and mountains from Vietnam to visit one of the most influential researchers in a new artificial intelligence school of thought. It has been two years since the first introductory email. A year later, I was able to submit a paper to a top conference. Statistically speaking, it was the largest event in academia and industry with more than 10,000 attendees. Last year, all tickets were sold out in 10 minutes and a VISA office of Canada was overload such that several people could not get a document on time.

I knew the fact that 99.999% the paper will be rejected, still I need to send it to a broader community to disseminate ideas and improve its quality. Though it has not complete yet because of the cost experiment, an idea is incubated and nurtured by my mathematical intuition and interest in cognitive neuroscience. In 2015, I dropped out (the second) PhD to pursue this research idea. As Hamming once said, “If you want to do great work, you clearly must work on important problems, and you should have an idea.”

Working on deep learning required an intensive resources. As a self-funded researcher working independently, I rely on open resources and dirty experience from practicing in industry. After several tests on small scale in a visiting laboratory and other universities in Canada, I have to re-allocate to Silicon Valley to call resources through collaboration and start my own company, but it was not easy. Last April, a similar demo is announced a lab of a leading infrastructure company. One source of verified information reveals that it takes roughly $500,000 (50 V100 GPUs). This has not estimated cost of human resources for researching, developing and maintaining a source code. So except for big tech companies, it is hard to imagine for small and medium size company to join this race.

Starting an AI-first company is also extremely difficult given the fact of a progressive development of an open community even faster than Moore’s Law. So, you have to do a very serious researcher by getting involved in community to really build an insight and distinguish the borderline between reality and science fiction. But not many experienced researchers trained by and from academia really have the right mindset, diverse skills and experience in entrepreneurship. And vice versa, the art entrepreneurship prefers simple and fast execution focused on validating assumptions of customers and market. The nature of starting a company is super dirty with no procedure requiring a very quick adaptive self-learning skills. Those are not taught in any school or from a well-designed curriculum and constraints, but only doing in a chaotic environment to train yourself from the inside. Last year, I attended two discussion panels in-person talking about how to start a AI-company. So far, my personal observations (by myself and people I talked in conferences and other venture firms) share a lot of similar review. It is more about marketing and story-teling, especially in Silicon Valley, leading to lots of concerns about another AI winter. But, that is how high tech works - It is always a bubble until an acquisition or an IPO.


Nonetheless, there is a more important urgent issue. It is about how algorithms affect people’s decision. Since 2016, there is a lot of unpredicted unreasonable events, especially in politics. While the world becomes more open and collaborative as one union thriving global community, suddenly, there was a switch to more conservative, nationalist and superalist side. In 2018, there was a scandal of Cambridge Analytica. Briefly, politicians leverage Facebook Aid to sway opinions by distorting reality with fake information leading to Brexit. Another simple but similar example, relationship. Have you encountered a situation that YouTube or Facebook Feeds bombarded you a ton of relationship advice from unknown experts? Those could be answered and advised by even people know you for years such as your family and friends, but somehow the recommendation systems are quite persistent - relentlessly provide you everything. If you are happy, those might be fine. But you are upset or dealing with uncertainty, you are very likely able to be injected by any kind information given by the system. Rightnow, most of us spend 24 hours online. And more children are able to use online program suggested by algorithms very early. It is estimated that 2.7B (2 700 000 000) people using Facebook’s product by 2019 and 3.5B (3 500 000 000) searches on Google per day and 1.2T per year (1 200 000 000 000). Seems like there was so much power controlled of tech giants.

My past accumulated by years experience in non-profit section and start-ups become a good fit to start-up a AI-first company. But as a female founder from an Asian country with a very limited resources, the amount of difficulty increase many times. Could not remember how many tech meet-ups, events, hackathon and conferences I attended, how many cities I visited, how many houses I stayed, how many friends of friends I visited, how many strangers I talked in restaurants, coffeeshops, metro station, hackathon, online and everywhere around the Bay Area. The sum of people in those could be added up to more than a million to find the first customer fit to my goal of development and a friendly VC + angel investors who shared the same belief as mine.

Remember when I stayed in a 40-people hacker house located in San Francisco downtown. Most people living there were young tech professionals working for small, medium, and large tech companies around the Bay Area. In my experience searching for resources, I realize that it was the best way for networking compared to going tech meet-ups, events, hackathon and conferences (except for a very messy dirty kitchen and a (real) mushroom basement). In the house, there was a big table in the kitchen where people played board games and shared stories. One day I accidentally got involved in a discussion about the future of humanity. Talking to me was a white male engineer working for a robotics company with nearly 200 million dollars for series A. He mentioned about an apocalypse and story of how “AI” would take people’s jobs. After asking a couple of questions, I realized that most of his story was from fiction - a story without a specific detail recorded from the past. I did not know what book he read or it was simply of a floating story as a result of cumulative imaginary uncertainty, which would become eventually real through his reflection in the physical world. On the other side of the table, most people were male engineers. Recall a another short piece of memory from one of the first deep learning schools I attended in 2016. There were 2000 attendees, but it only took four lunch tables with around 40 all female participants - equivalently 2%. Three years later, I went to another women in tech event with more than 100 people, nonetheless, only around 1% of a whole size of conference. Well, this is a very deep frustration.


Back in Vietnam really helped me a lot to recover and bounce back to balance after years pouring all mental energy for submitting to a research paper. I took time for myself and returned to a familiar environment with routines, went to coffee shops, ate Vietnamese food, read books and enjoyed music and attended an artistic workshop. One year earlier, I realized a lot of difference from the inside; My reading skill becomes faster and better, especially skimming and spotting key words. Give me 300-pages, I could skim in quickly in 10 minutes. My research ability was expanded to everything as long as the process is transparent and fair. I have one submitted a paper and open two source code. Talking about language, my English became more interactive and fearless communicate to hundreds of people, including researchers, engineers, and businessmen from around the world. (Indeed, quite daunting for an introverted person). I am finally able to speak French and dictate Spanish. I paid more attention on meditation and became more consciously receive information with more self-examination based on the previous prior authentic experience.

My journey has been started more than a decade ago since I was a teenager trying to close a gap of understanding myself and the world around me. Remember when I became crazy from a lab in Singapore, then all-in for research and finally YOLO drifting from place to place around North America. Though I left several things behind, including my managerial positions, an academic title and career, a very well-paid job, lots of relationships, I really appreciate what I earned until this point.  From a Youtube watcher, I become someone in video and talked to people in that video. From reading a blog, I meet bloggers and started my own blog. From someone consume knowledge, I became the one generate it. While writing the first chapter of my book about Augmented Intelligence, I start to acknowledge how hard it is to differentiate between my own story and a story I read in a book or from someone else several years ago. A tremendous growth - a miracle!

Take-away: you don’t need anyone, any school of philosophy or any culture to validate who you are. Be in the present. Be yourself and let the world know you.
