---
layout: post
title: Back to Vietnam
tags:
- AI
- Climate Change
- English
---

Time back to Vietnam. It has been a while for my YOLO trip to complete a research project under collaboration with academia. The application of this research would be a key idea for the next rising wave of VR/AR industry. I am moving to the development phase to call resources with Xlab by hacking Silicon Valley and San Francisco Bay Area - the capital of the tech world. I mean creatively and intensively learning this highly concentrated tek geek community in the world and call resources. Well, not yet, almost ... it was super hard, but three years ago, this was the land welcomed me and seeded a belief seed of growing in an open tech learning community.  Where would be the better place? But right now, I have to travel to Vietnam.

Last week, I became a mentor for a hackathon called AI4Good. In the past ten years, I had participated in several creative contests and hackathons. Empty at the beginning, but eventually earned some prizes in a regional and international hackathon. Moreover, a degree of effort reduces from trying pretty hard to not trying but still got a prize and somehow able to spot the first winning team. For example, last year I went to a Cooperathon, the largest international hackathon in the world co-organized in several cities. In an ice-breaking session at the Healthcare track, I talked to a couple of random people and became interested in two teams. The first won the first prize in the healthcare track. The second - my team - we won the highest single prize for executing ideas. Before that, I was in the top 1% of virtual AI hackathon and won a region creative contest for a sustaniable friendly-environment solution. I was even a person who responsible for a creative contest from research and technology for a climate change creative contest while at university. I knew too much with so much dirty experience. It would be fair to become a mentor to maximize an impact.

AI4Good is a hackathon about applying AI for solving community problems. Lots of my previous experience match with creative technology and education projects. I started very early while at university and left as one of the top managers of an organization and lead of the project. Some of them are results of collaboration with several students from several other universities in Vietnam and other countries. Some others are from my university with nearly a hundred participants. In a journey of conducting independent research, I eventually become a data scientist - trained by top-notch experts in the San Francisco Bay Area. Moreover, then, one of the first people fully trained with a 6-month online degree of Artificial Intelligence instructed by top researchers and professors in the industry.

However, I never thought to combine all of those into one project until a conversation talking to participants about my previous work. Suddenly there was something sparkle in me. So I sent a message one of my last organizations - which I joined as a lead of volunteer and stayed there for two years. We have done several projects together by organizing cultural events and creative idea competition for university students, building a knowledge base, and sharing our stories — so much good memory. So I reached out one of my team members, later she became the leader of all projects. In the past seven years, they had been looking for a creative technology solution to solve the problems of locals in disadvantaged areas. Some people in hackathon were also interested in social for good projects. So I reach out to an organizer and sharing their portfolio while supporting them writing a proposal remotely. However, this was not an easy task. When talking about climate change, it was more about resources owned people who have a connection to policy, or in short government such as water, land, and forest.  A  few days later, an open paper released by top researchers in a top conference also addresses an issue and call people to take actions by applying machine learning to derive a solution tackling climate change. After reading that paper, I started to remember how hard it was to work with people hold policy, primarily if you work on several layers and high hirarchachy organization - I have suffered several times. Yes, which also eventually led me to entrepreneurship with start-up and open community.

I sent an email but got a reply that they were only interested in a local charity. However, we still kept doing. While continuing to help by shaping the proposal, I remembered that my dad. His institution was the public organization responsible for framing and scoping problem-related to water resources. Through decades, he had learned about an overall landscape of climate change toward society, agriculture-based economics, and nature in Vietnam. Based on statistics in 2018, Vietnam is one of the countries suffering most about climate change. Though my dad would never care about micro problem, e.g. problem of a small village or a small community and told me that nobody from the government would care about a small pilot project without “million dollars” funding, he would never be able to close a door to his daughter.  

Moreover, we only try to need to scope a little problem - enough for validating ideas and taking actions. It would take a lot of effort for me to explain to him about an ideas in Vietnamese. Besides, my soon-to-be-published book and Xlab open knowledge base project needs original material.

Well, I can not find any better time back to my dear Vietnam.
