---
layout: post
title: How to hack a tech industry for an outsider
tags:
- Self-learning
- Reflection
- English
---
Recently, a couple of female enthusiasts send me several questions about how to enter tech to industry in general from a different background and before that there was some people asking me the same question. This note is mainly for whom are thinking and preparing for transition.

Here I would like to share some learning experience from many different people with a cross-checked validation. Some of them from tech intensive hub. Some of them has a background in STEM. Some of them have an advanced degree. Some of them were in academia many years.

My background

* I started with pure mathematics and then transited to applied mathematics and computer science with a Master Degree. I was trained by academia. Besides life in school, I get involved with lots of activities outside school especially with design, education, culture, environment and entrepreneurship with several positions moved from hands-on to top management.

* A backstory, since 2011-2012, I started with applied mathematics to learn the correlation between data collected from neuroscience and social behaviour after losing my faith in something called psychology. This research leads me to try several research projects. Most of them fail miserably immediately embarrassingly obviously. Some other helps me connected to some people like me which helps me gain the first PhD offer at the end of third year and be a part of a pioneering research in computational neuroscience. But I wasn’t very satisfied with all the stories told by chemists and physicists and biologists and mathematists so I moved back to computer science with the second PhD program with something called machine learning.

* I get started with machine learning in 2015 for the second PhD program with information system by self-learning first with all material on the internet, especially from education websites like Coursera.

* My starting point was about security and privacy as a researcher till the moment I read a paper called Generative Adversarial Network and learn more about something called Artificial Neural Network. Nevertheless, it was a story of 2015 when the rumour only spread by some communities living in North America. From a perspective of experienced researchers, especially in university, it was considered as an impossible dream. It led to my drop out and eight months working by myself on the internet to get connected to communities in the Bay Area - a core central tech hub seen as most highly tech concentrated of the world.

* Thank to that trip, I got all a dirty experience to start as a data scientist - one of the first kinds in my country and as the main part core skill set of mine till the moment.

Coming as a woman from a minority group and a different non-English-speaking country in Asia to a male dominated industry driven culture, I feel super lucky and always want to share what I have learned to others.

In this note, I don’t try to curate online resources for all-in-one like what I did 3 years ago, but here I hope it will paint you a picture based on real experience based on personal stories with a reference to help you understand the landscape, particularly at San Francisco - the world capital of technology

** How to get started - Know the process to get the right expectation **

* Step 1: Prepare with a 3-month intensive training:
  * Expensive cost up to 10K, but a better a short that an 4-year degree or an advanced degree in computer science.
  * Shortcuts:
    * Free resources: open website and online learning, e.g. Datacamp, Coursera with a designed curriculum.
    * Hackathon: experience collected from various resources, different lenses of experience.
* Step 2: (Blind) Apply intensively - hundreds of companies. Some notes different stages of companies and start-ups would provide you different pros and cons regarding working vs learning experience with different benefits and growth opportunities. (My choice: startups)
* Step 3: Networking and meetups
* Step 4: Get in a company after interviews: Start low and almost payless despite what you did and who you are
 * Shortcuts: internships, volunteer in relevant events or learning groups

 Despite which process and how fast you get through, the things that matter is more about how you communicate based on real experience rathers a fancy story to impress people. The more you pay an effort to promote your work to a larger audience, the more likely you will find the right match to what you search for.

And San Francisco is one of the best places for people in tech to do networking.

** How to networking, a.k.a. Connecting to people **

* My favorite website is meetups.com. One example is a Python Group of San Francisco I was recommended by a stranger.  https://www.meetup.com/sfpython/ This is a monthly meetup of lots of core Python groups in several companies and communities. Its structure is followed by some talks from members under a form of lightning talks and short presentations, then others sections such as tutorials, mini-hackathons, discussions, meetups.
* Other Python meetups
  * Learning group of FastAI
  * Pyladies - location is moved around the city at UCSF and Holberton
* Hacker house
  * Noisebridge: a world-renowned hacker space functioned as an NPO open to everyone, especially in whom are interested VR/AR/Neurotech/IOTs/3D printing. Most people come here with an idea and needed a support from a community. I know this space when approaching a group of 3 software engineers in a Vietnamese Restaurant on 6th Street. Nevertheless, they are raising funds for a re-allocation in the next 6 months. You can visit them at https://www.noisebridge.net/
  * Queenrious: a new hacker house founded in 2019 dedicated to a minority and under-represented group in tech industry to increase equality and diversity. I met one of founders of this hacker house in a special event for women in start-up. It is super interesting because among everybody, only two of us speak the same language.
  * Negev (acquired by Tribe - or a 40-ppl house is acquired by a 70-ppl house): In my opinion, this is one of the best places for you to find real people working for start-ups as software engineers and entrepreneur and digital nomads. Super interesting place to stay if you wanna talk from early day at 3:00AM to late nights. Nevertheless, the house is super dirty and full of problems. I found this house by talking to two strangers in a hackathon about my story of being kicked out of another house on the first day and had to go to the internet to ask for help. Somehow I find myself lucky to find this a 1-month deal.
* Conference and tech events:
 * Frequent avenue around San Francisco and its neighborhood.
Ironically, whenever I asked someone about something for the next week. Something super big is gonna happen like a GCD.
 * Tricks: all of conferences are paid and those tickets are very expensive to join if you don’t have a sponsor of a company. A trick here is that from 24 hours to 1 month before an event, some sections, e.g. exposition, speaking section, workshops are open to public. Besides, there are lots of networking events for ppl to join with a free admission.
* Meetups:
 * There is always something at night in San Francisco for you to join. Free and no need to be hurried and operated like first come first served. Nevertheless, make sure that you don’t visit a city from December to February like what I did - Super unproductive because a city is empty. No meetup. No event. No bar. Office is empty.

Here is a short note of mine. You might see it as a crash course to survive in San Francisco or tech industry. Before arriving there, I have eight months to read everything on the internet and apply almost everything I could find. But it was 4 years ago, everything would be very out of date compared to the progressive development of the whole community. Anyway, hope that it would help you somehow in the way of searching for more opportunities for a prospect career in machine learning. If you have more questions, feel free to ask me via my email.
