---
layout: post
title: Do you believe in luck?
tags:
- Reflection
- Bayesian
- English
---

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8DMnAAvakh0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Got an interesting suggestion from a true-story movie I watched 10 yrs ago.

This clip talks about "Monty Hall Problem", one of the well-knowns examples to explain Conditional Probability and Bayesian Inference.

My true story, I did win an almost entire desk of six including one MIT grad student - a holder. And possesed four-of-a-kind. Then several times after that with math students. I even have an extremely smart friend with the same meaning. And recently I have met four people with same name sharing lots of similarities in pairs.

I see myself as a very lucky person. But I don't prefer to gamble (though it was very tempting in Las Vegas) As someone used to do maths because of itself, I would prefer something else because of its intrinsic value to me.

My luck did bring to me a teacher who I would have never expected because of a tremendous amount of distance of geography, culture and language. Especially, it happened while I was trying to master all "Monty Hall Problem" and avoid academia as much as possible to quickly enter to industry and pay for a cost of Bay Area trip.

A big shock and rejecting feeling right at the moment I realized that. I had not prepared and anticipated. I ran away from him, but I could not escape myself. A voice continued whispering until the day I came to see him in-person.

One day, it told me something. And, I decided to try. Then, a couple of days later I was going to a total strange city in a different country. The moment that I fully recognize by observing surrounding, my body could not stop shaking. This experience kept happening every time I travel.

Ironically, my latest trip leaving his city was canceled at the last minute. I was moved to another flight full of MIT grads and professors - All deeply interested in Bayesian's school of thought. One of professors was so excited to share his latest research that he kept talking all the time. Clearly it was a very loud voice, not from me, but around 10 seat rows away from me, to remind about my mission.

After watching that clip, I decided to refresh my feed to get a new list of suggestion. The first result was a clip about the teacher. As I told myself many times, I did not need someone to be my teacher to continue my journey. It was the fact I had left academia to start my own independent research one year earlier I knew him.

My luck also gave a name which exactly indicates my current status, my original starting point and current point of research. When will I make the breakthrough for all three of them?

Happy new year!
