---
layout: post
title: My entrepreneurship journey
tags:
- Reflection
- Entrepreneur
- English
---

I am wondering - how many times did I kick-off a project as a starter, a founding member or a manager? Tenth or twelfth time.

Eight years ago, I attended an event of entrepreneurship organized by a young group of entrepreneurs and the Stanford Technology Venture Program. My project was about art therapist to help people, especially professionals suffering from anxiety and stress to find a way of expressing their emotion with the community through art. It failed - people did not believe in the non-profit organization. Also, who would in spending money on art?

Since then, I kept following a model of non-profit organization, especially with technology. One of my later projects is to help the disadvantaged area in Vietnam suffering climate change. Those areas where there was no electricity, no clean water, poor education. The government could not do anything further because it cost too much for planning and executing. So, we collaborated another small group of students from other countries to come and bring a solar panel. I was recruited as a leader of volunteers, then a leader of the research, technology representative, leader of a knowledge base, eventually a manager of this organization after two years.

This opportunity lead me to another exciting chance to start another academic project in psychology, which eventually is founded as a start-up company based by MIT/ Singaporean Scholar and a Facebook engineer. I was in charge of an entire company of 20 people in Vietnam whereas my CEO and CTO were in the States. However, something was aching in my heart - about my true calling to unveil the most mysterious secrets of science and philosophy - the mind.

For several years, I have been searching every corner of my life to trace for knowledge of mind from academic to art and industry. Nevertheless, I chose to learn pure mathematics because I found my gift on this subject and wanted it to be nurtured and developed. I dreamt of being a theoretical physicist using math equations and revealing all unknown of the universe. However, after several tragedies happened, I started to return to more art subject such as psychology and neuroscience.

Summer of 2012, I attended a mini class of a newly minted scholar from Stanford who searched for a student to build up research. His work was built on top of the most obscure and robustest branch of math and also my favorite - topology. His interest is also very different from the others - somehow he was very intrigued by neuroscience topics. All of those made me decide to follow him.

Some incidents were happening so I could not start my Ph.D. after completing the junior year. I was stuck in Vietnam and tried to do some meaningful projects. It led to two other education project funded by the Society of Math in my city and Vietnam National University. In the beginning, I was the chief editor of my department’s student magazine. However, somehow, the chair of a department spotted me and nominated me to be a project manager. I led a group of nearly a hundred of students in my department in two years to transfer all knowledge written in English to Vietnamese so as more people would have access to all and move this to their students.

In those years, nonetheless, the truth was I was miserable to manage all of the aspects of life - my identity, my academic performance, my circle of friends - Well, in many different universities and student clubs. Some of them led me to make a crazy decision like skipping all Master Class taught by top mathematicians from France - (Thank God I was finally granted a degree) - to travel from the south to the north of the city for two hours working in several weeks. Despite all the effort, we fail after two years. It helped me be very competent to take over many different managerial positions, primarily as a project manager and a managing director.

Eventually, all of those little experiences help me find a path of searching for my pure soul. It turned me to be a very different person with “hungry and foolish” by taking so many leaps of faith. One year later I left my company to become a scholar, and then suddenly went an ivory tower o return to Vietnam with nothing except for an idea. Something was burning in me - I could not explain, but it was aching in my heart every moment I thought of it. From Vietnam, somehow I found a path to a central hub of the tech world in America which was felt as being unbelievable or impossible for a female from a low-income Asia family with no background in tech or education.

It was so powerful that despite of the fact that I failed and was rejected all the time and everywhere from industry to academia by family, friends, colleagues, teachers - indeed almost everyone, the idea still existed and pushed me go forward until the moment whomever I talked was strangers, wherever I stayed was the first place in another a totally different country, whatever I planned was about priorities and emergency.

The amount of time was measured by years. The number of people in my connection was estimated by hundreds from many different events, communities, conferences, and exhibitions of hundred thousand of people.

Lots of people say my curiosity make me qualify as a Ph.D. student, and I should come back to graduate school, but I don’t do all of the above things for opportunities of being a Ph.D., even from any well-recognized institution. That is what I told a researcher before leaving academia four years ago.

Recruiting websites say my skill and experience show my competence as a senior or a lead, even a director of a tech company.  I don’t do all of the above things for opportunities of working for any small or big tech companies with a big salary. If so, I would never have any so much experience as a starter working for small unknown groups of young students and professionals.

Naturally, I would say - I am a person of actions - I see a problem and do in my best to find a solution. I don’t stay in one place and make complaints or try to make the others do for me. I do all dirty work needed to make things done, even though it takes lots of time and efforts without any recognition. The fact that I am doing something towards a goal of solving an issue is a reward itself.

So all of these turns me to be an entrepreneur.
