---
layout: post
title: Back to Montreal
tags:
- Reflection
- Misc
- English
---

When I said goodbye to Montreal, I told them that I would return soon. But I did not expect that I would be only after three hours later. My plan to complete the first chapter of the book was blew away. Last Friday, my request to enter the States was refuted because of [a misunderstanding](https://github.com/EmmaNguyen/emmanguyen.github.io/blob/master/static/pdf/edited_Gmail%20-%20Feedback%20about%20Withdrawal%20of%20Application%20for%20Admission_%20Consular%20Notification-edited.pdf). Despite several efforts to explain the situation, I could not lighten her dark room by any positive energy. After a series of questions, she made a conclusion that I was trying to job opportunity in the States whereas I am a CEO/ founder of high tech company. On one side, I considered myself as a victim of False Positive Case. On another side, it reminded me a cognitive error called affirmation bias. Instead of seeking the neutral characteristic evidence to build a hypothesis, people tend to seek empirical evidence supporting their belief. Most of the time this unconscious decision has been processed before all evidence is presented.

Well, in fact, we never have enough data to make evaluation, but often based on personal experience of what happened in the past. When encountering to a new different example as a confliction or out of the current knowledge, the stake become so high pushing people into two extreme of reactions, e.g. rejection or acceptance. For people working for government, stability and safety are considered as the highest priority. One my favorite example is a black swan. It was a myth until someone discovered its existence 1790 in another ...continent. Whether a debates of scholar in literatures in hundred years, the fact this beautiful bird physically existed outside their world. Nevertheless, it took several examinations until strong evidence was collected and confirmed by science.

Remembered that the first time traveling to States, I had to consult 3-5 different consulting companies. The last one decided to help me by constructing a simple story - I rejected their form and then requested an official invitation from my non-credit program. In the beginning, I got a warning that 100% I will be rejected, but I was a genuine person at least to myself. My philosophy of life is being a part of goodness and staying away politics. Dropped out of a fully supported Ph.D. program one week before and ignored an personal invitation from DBA program at Harvard Business School to laser focus on my own independent research by myself in 4 months until I realized that my tech skill was not good enough to work on a supercomputer. To earn a hands-on experience, I applied and pursued several companies and all incubate/ education program around the world in 4 months from Vietnam by the internet. And got only one, yes only one acceptance from a learning community from San Francisco. It took another 2 months to process paperwork for a VISA and 1 month for classroom re-opening in Autumn. Unexpectedly, I got approval. One year exactly later I arrived in the Bay Area, but ... after being kept in a CBP room in two hours to clarify my purpose. Never had been such situation before, especially in a strange country which my parents never want me to travel.

Since the moment I decided to leave grad school, every second to make one thing happen - An idea is stuck in my mind - a voice, an illusion and a signal I could “see through” from an interactive world. Nonetheless, all of those experience turns me be a black swan. I never seek any specific thing except for this crazy idea. I keep doing. After getting a very good job in with a starting salary x10 higher than the market baseline in Vietnam, I asked myself, what is the point of earning money and how much money would I need to do as well as several hard work dirty daily task I have to complete? I resigned a company and joined a friend project to support community. In meanwhile, I dedicated an entire of time on web-surfing all open content from conferences, workshop and source code. If 2015 I went crazy and decided to drop out, 2016 I traveled to the State and met a person I called “the Teacher”. Many times I tried to reject this improbability. Recall a capstone project after three months of practice called Maven - a (food) recommendation system for a world traveler.

What makes this idea become special is applying unsupervised learning and trying with self-learning algorithms to segment a group of user based on personal inference. I made it for fun because of being homesick, a.k.a. Pho, Bun Bo, Hu Tieu, Pork Grilled rice, Banh Mi, Goi cuoi, Mi xao - well this list can go on and on. However, this project somehow predicts my situation in 2017 - travel, unsupervised, self-learning after meeting the Maven in person. Well, should I have more courage to jump into him in 2016 earlier. Or because I was in the anti-academia mode and tried to avoid all professors, especially anyone whom I know their existence by the internet. Well, a collective open community. Then in 2018, I was in the abysmal of everything. Rejected by all grad schools (thanks all for saving me 5+++ years - I knew too much), fooled by a naive relationship, ran out money because of investing all to grad school - at least I still remember fee waiving option. Save a hundred of dollars ...

Being so desperated, I boosted my mood by challenging myself to go trekking the highest mountain of Mekong Delta and then South East Asia. Lost a couple of times and traverse in the middle of deep forest by myself. Lots of things have change since then. Two months later, I got a loan from a bank. One day, I decided to pack a bag to Montreal by myself with $300 around less than a month. I was surprised myself and failed myself a little bit. I could not speak spontaneously in a meeting with the teacher. Many parts of me tried to reject him but another part of me keep pushing me to me. I stayed in his lab in three months and trying to find a way to settle in Quebec. Unfortunately, it did not work because of a bureaucracy. Another time, all of my investment to Quebec failed. Nevertheless, I was able to speak French (voila and now can mix two accents), join a team winning 10K hackathon grant and know a bunch of interesting people from different places and backgrounds, attend two conferences - organized by top researchers in the field of Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science. In 2019, I got stuck in the middle of research and development for my start-up. Its mission is very clearly to me - decentralize technology.

After going through several life struggles and my personal experience long time ago in mathematics, there is a lot of things which I could never able to explain. For example, an ability to solve math without using logic but by a sparkling flash in mind. Other example with memory - my track record is around ten year interleave. Another example is with my own visualization after learning about a research group called geometrical intelligence in 2016 with picture of neural scene understanding. And sometime, I can skim a book within two minutes. During that process, some keyword become more vivid to me and related to something had happened or going to happen. Indeed, my own independent research means being neutral and observing as a third person without any intervention. But on the other side, I feel myself living in a social experiment controlled by some unknown factors. A test is unlocking the higher level of representation to modelize an entire batch and then keep doing as long as you still survive. I feel crazy this moment when writing this line.

Some people say it is authenticity. Other say it is curiosity. Some others say it self-discovery. I personally says this is my endless effort of closing the gap between my interior world and an exterior world. This iteration of seeking for an world understanding starts with simple questions around the world through observation and transfered knowledge. Eventually the momentum becomes stronger and eventually drives me out of several boundary of society and knowledge. I stepped out of all imaginary rules governed by the world such as gender bias and culture bias. And as a result, I do hope to return this piece of knowledge to the open community - a collective consciousness of individual who shared the belief to sharing and supporting each other. But the best workable and practical way is learning about mindfulness and practice meditation with your authenticity. Yes, I need to come back to San Francisco
