---
layout: post
title: Why I start Xlab?
tags:
- Reflection
- Entrepreneur
- English
---

I still remember an excitement when reading a book on a topic of advanced psychology in a book fair. It was about a story of Sigmund Fred and how he interpreted dreams - one of the first hints to explain how sometimes I could see numbers jumping in sleep, then woke up and cracked a very tough problem.  It was how I got hooked with psychology and almost dedicated four years in school, nonetheless, there was another interest with mathematics, especially with geometry and number theory, that made me change decision in the last minute when filling an application. Or, probably, my youthful spirit was luckily sparkled by several personal encounters with most senior world-class mathematicians. Then, the supportive young generation during undergraduate, and experienced researchers in my advanced degree.

None of my family is interested in science or technology or mathematics. My father was born in 1949. He was one of the very first ideal communists from the North moving to the South of Vietnam after 1975. However, nearly twenty years later, solely living by himself, he got married, and I was born in 1991. When I grew up, my father always talked about my destiny as a woman living for a husband’s family given by several examples of brothers and peers’ daughters - some are older than me 30 years old. On the other side, my mother interest was about national security. At age 12, she took me to the police museum to learn an entire history and lessons of Vietnam. Very often, she tried to introduce me to the sons of colleagues. My future was clearly envisioned by my parents. It did not matter how well-educated I was or what I would prefer. Everything was re-arranged with a husband and job working for a government similar to previous sisters.

I had no pressure from family to ace any exams. My result was often median (passed) or highest concerning my interest. In several years, I kept standing at the most top positions in classes, and schools without or very few extra-classes. Indeed, the fact I was so good was too scary rather than surprising to my parents. Many times they tried to suppress me by authority, superiority, and violence followed by Asian tradition. My father’s famous sentence is “women are never able to compete with men.” My mother’s story was all about her indifferent and whining experience, followed by her model of a mothership. As the first and successful female example ever in parents’ family, I was treated as an outcast invisible member in that family without any right to plan and make critical decisions in terms of finance and economy, but my younger brother. It was how I learn to be independent to execute any personal plan without any or little support or resources. This eventually becomes an attitude turning me to be a leader, the project manager, of several non-profit and start-up projects and organizations as well as immersing myself in the entrepreneur community.

After at least 12 years, I have continuously been searching for something explaining a gift I found as a kid - a state of mind nurtured through a series of fantastic experience when practicing mathematics, drawing and designing starting by self-belief and authenticity. I could not believe how this incredible self-discovery journey drove me to be crazy and break so many different boundaries defined by geography, knowledge, practice, language, time, policies, tradition, states of emotion, living condition, human connection, and many more.  During that time, there has been lots of coincidences - the right time, the right place, the right people, or simply, I say luck - serving as turning points. Many times I was quite shocked at the beginning, and my reaction was self-rejection before someone did send me an official rejection - which I felt quite reasonable and obvious. However, somehow, I found “a trail” to get through so many barriers to the point which I am today. I would like to show my appreciation and gratitude for what I am given and inherit from this collective open world with humbleness and respect by returning what I learn as an active member.

Suddenly, human discover how to break reality formed by perception and cognition after several up and down in the research community. Lots of knowledge in science will be re-written. Lots of aspect of our life will be supported by automated machines. Soon in the next few years, there will be a tremendous change in science and technology through innovations. As we learn from the past, every revolution will drastically change an entire landscape of the world measured by productivity. Some will enlargen a gap between groups and countries. Some will close difference faster than ever. Xlab is born with a mission to decentralize technology owned by a few key players and tech giants, especially to people in a disadvantage and under representative group who need technology to solve problems most. Here I don’t only talk about English-speaking countries from America or Europe, but the world in general for all despite color, gender, and origin. Yes, more gates should be open to everyone - so is Xlab’s mission.

Start simple and little. Keep momentum.

Montreal, May 17 '19
