2018 is a miracle year to me. Not because of good news, but the fact that I release myself from fear and sorrow to conquer so many life challenges and unlock hidden opportunities. So, this year I would like to spend time on blogging seriously to document my ideas and thoughts, not random notes. Hopefully, those will help someone similar to me in a need to overcome struggles and have a better life. So the first blog of this year will be long to re-introduce myself again.

My name is Emma. I am a machine learning researcher with a strong interest in cognitive neuroscience and biology. Very different from a lot of people in machine learning community, I come from a very far away country in South East Asian called Vietnam. Probably most of you heard about Vietnam War, but it was the past. I am one of the first representatives of a youngest generation after a revolution of technology in the last decade of the 20th century.

A long time ago, I was a student who is interested in solving math problems. I did everything by releasing my mind into an empty space and then waited for an answer back to me in a form a picture. Sometimes, I would able to reconstruct a total giant space of object allowing me to mentally traverse across countries and planets. Sometimes, the most complex problems were solved when I was dreaming. It was a gift I discovered since I was ten years old. Since then, I started to practice that ability by drawing, solving math problems and playing chess. Eventually, I got the highest award titles in school and city in mathematics, drawing, and chess unexpectedly. None of my family members worked in education and their interest was far away for a daughter, but a son. Despite that, I became the first person who excelled in academic beyond of all the expectation of family and friends.

After three years in a gifted school specialized in computer science, I decided to pursue mathematics as a theoretician. To me, it is the purest curiosity compared to other interests. My parents felt a little bit dizzy but they told themselves that as a woman, I would quickly give up, and even completing a degree, I would do totally different things like my sisters who got a so-and-so job and married. Because of knowing that, I would not let my parents satisfied their belief. So, before everything started in the first year, in summer, I optimized learning by consuming all free open content in English on the internet. At that moment, there were not as many as nowadays, except for some pioneering universities in States in calculus, algebra, physics, etc. Most of them have had been recorded around two years ago, and the quality of the video was bad. But, it was enough for fueling a dream of a little girl in a big world.

However, very soon, I realized that I was not fit to the school. I was fed up with examination and score. There was a part of me telling that there was something missing here. Since the end of the first semester, I decided to join a lot of activities with friends in education and charity as a graphical designer and a video editor. Then a series of unrelated work across universities and organizations, a translator, a writer, an event organizer, human resource executive, a technical supporter, a marketer, a web developer, a project manager, and an editor. In the third year, I became a leader of multiple projects and teams. For two years, I managed two projects funded by National University up to nearly 100 people to transfer knowledge of applied mathematics to students and high school teachers. In addition, I got a team of five people to create a knowledge base for a non-profit organization to transfer technology to a distant disadvantage area in Vietnam. As a consequence, my academic failed miserably and I was kicked out of the honor program in the last year even though my courses were all advanced classes. A professor called to me and said that he apologized, but I told him it would be fine because I did not care at all. It was a luck that I got a Distinction thank to a tiny marginal when graduated as a top student in that year cohort, so I was selected for an international French Master program after that.

Indeed, around the end of the third year, I was offered a full-scholarship for a Ph.D. program in Australia to work with a newly minted scholar, and also one of my co-supervisors at undergraduate. His theoretical study pioneered an application directly to my field of interest - neuroscience. Suddenly, he got a teaching position as a professor in the States and decided to re-allocate. Correspondingly, I decided to move with him and reapplied my application. In a gap year, I took a Master Program which gave me an opportunity to intern at one of the top research groups in computational neuroscience in France. But, I still got bored with classes, so joined a group of students to kick-off an entrepreneur project. Every weekday, instead of going to school, I commuted in two hours from the south to the north of the city to join a team and another two hours back home. In result, I was at the bottom of classes. Again, I told myself that I could not let everything end like that. Another lucky that the last class was very interesting to me such that I had enough motivation for completing the final project. Surprisingly, I got the highest score among peers, and thus, helped me receive an internship.

My intern project was creating mathematical stimulation of a biological neural network in a very tiny scale to understand the mechanism of the biophysical phenomenon with a hope to find a cure for mental diseases. The challenge was an extremely high density of neurons, the complexity of computation, and an efficient stimulation of the true nature of the phenomenon. During the work, I tried to incorporate a lot of thoughts and started to realize a gap between my bachelor thesis and the current work. When I was at the third year, I realized that my branch of mathematics was matured enough to derive a robust quantitative method to tackle with a super complex structure of information in a form of network. But my experience was not rich enough to get an overview of a whole picture until the internship. Eventually, there was something started in my mind saying that I have to continue the work all the time. It was a very little soft voice whispering to me every morning. However, the first experience staying abroad told me something else much more important, my family. Leaving France, I came back to Vietnam and quickly after that got an offer to become a director manager a US start-up company developed from a collaborative project with a graduate student in psychology. We got some early successes in the local market, became a leader and recognized by competitors. But, I decided to come back to academia to continue my research. After getting an approval from family and a scholarship at a top Singaporean University, I resigned.

I came to Singapore three months earlier to prepare for my Ph.D. program. For some unknown reason, I messed up with an application, so instead of machine learning, I worked on privacy and security. It was not too bad because this branch of computer science used a lot of mathematics. Most of them are my favorite puzzles since I was a kid, so I quickly got through a material and started to learn about what people were doing around in my laboratory and another university. I heard that there was a powerful algorithm which is able to crack all kinds of protocol. To protect information, it required to use an highly advanced mathematics. If you wanted to crack it, you needed a quantum computer. But the state of the art at that moment was still very far behind for a real application. In meantime at nights, I devoted time to work on my research. It was about a connection between neural network and mathematics. One day, I shared my goal with a friend and surprisingly he told me what I am trying to do was much similar to that powerful algorithm, but warned me about its history, especially from the perspective of statistics and mathematics. Gradually, the voice became louder and I could not ignore it anymore. I asked my friends, other supervisors in my university and searched for other groups in Singapore, but got no positive reply. Clearly, this path was far riskier than anyone could imagine. Before two weeks of an official commencement, I dropped out and returned to my home country. I had no idea what would do next, but deep down I knew what I was hunting for.

I trusted my intuition. Deeply I believed that I was into something very important. For several days, I stayed in a room to review old notes, try to contact other research groups to ask about what they were doing, read their paper and synchronize ideas. To gain more knowledge and equip skills, online course and open source code are my main reference every day. Sometimes, I watched online video and lectures to get inspiration. One day, I found out a talk of a female researcher about a journey to seek for a knowledge. Being moved by her story, I decided to make a time investment for an exploration of her project as a participant of a competition. And unexpectedly, organizers gained me an access to one of the most state of the art computing machine, thus gave me the first real experience with that powerful algorithm. Quickly, I understood one of the first challenge was engineering. Although I had some programming experience, my initial training was aimed for theoretical work with some little programming within academia. So, I decided to force myself into the industry to gather enough practical experience by applying to the top companies and programs in the States. Among many rejections, I got two open opportunities of top data science programs in New York and San Francisco. And after eight months of relentlessly effort with at least eight interviews and paperwork, I arrived in San Francisco as a fellow of the first data science academies on West Coast, and a recipient of Woman Scholarship from Big Tech Company.

With one US dollar, you can exchange more 22,000 Vietnam Dong. My father, at the end of thirty years as an engineer staying the same office, was awarded a nomination from the government as a hero of labour, but only earn slightly more than 300 dollars per month. My mother was promoted to one of highest ranks in a ladder of city security force, still get less than 400 dollars per month. For more than twenty years, four of us lived in a 40 meter square room in total of a hundred year old building left over the war with one or two, sometimes three other relatives. We rarely eat out and always cooked by ourselves - the only way to feed all members’ stomachs. My father never have time for me except for the television. My mother taught me as commanding soldiers. So I usually come to a neighbor to learn with their kids at the beginning and borrow their books. My first library was made of several old books from all of sisters and brothers living around before I earn some little money from scholarship to buy books in maths, science and fiction in Vietnamese. When internet became more available to me at home and school, my main reference of information and knowledge turned to be the top open websites of university and organization across countries in English. Eventually, I dreamed of learning abroad to really be in that environment. On the contrary, my parents were quite indifferent, especially hold a very aggressive attitude toward the western countries invading Vietnam. For many years, we lived in two opposite extreme of belief and perspective. This was reinforced by other family members and friends. I became an enemy of family, a monster, and an outcast. As my mother usually said, it was what I deserved because of my choice. Yes, I made it by myself.

It was super crazy to learn about housing in the San Francisco Bay Area and its neighborhood. And, my budget was very tight. One month before that I had to pretend that I was there to contact the host and house owner in Craigslist and other housing platforms. Finally, a nice host accepted me in three months after a very neat application with a long list of questions. Nonetheless, she did not have room for me in the first week, so I had to stay with a graduate student and her family in a closeby city which took me around four commuting hours two way by bus. Sometimes we had a short conversation about our research and she shared some events for me to go. Thank to her, I knew a public sharing lecture of top researchers working in my field where I had the first encounter with “the teacher”. Back to the time I left Singapore, to ascertain that this was not a stubborn decision, I told myself that after this I should never ever return to academia unless I would know the teacher - to give me a very concrete and solid reason. To illustrate how strong this vow was, one week after I returned to Vietnam, an associate director from one of the top business schools sent me a lucrative invitation for their Doctorate Program in person. I told one of my professors that I would not reply that email and pretend as it would never happen. Therefore, I had put enough effort and concentration to avoid all graduate programs in the States to exchange for only a tourist visa to follow a non-credit three-month program. Believe it or not, thank this opportunity, after only one year, I was in the right place, at the right time to see him, the teacher.

For more than twenty-two years I struggled to be a part of my family and friends. I thought that it was my problem, my fault, and my emotion but then I realized that it was not. So, instead of waiting for a solution, I started with simply giving me a self-love and self-belief, then little by little with small but meaningful actions which drove me out of self destructing thought and turned me to become a different person. During that period of time, there were many amazing things happened, but the past three years was the most miraculous experience. I could never anticipate that I would drop out a graduate program after having resigned a managerial position three months ago. I would have never anticipated traveling to Bay Area, the heart of entrepreneurship and technology after three months independently research at Vietnam. I would have never anticipated that I would meet "the teacher" anytime before and during that trip. And what had happened to me in the next two years since then is more than anything which I would have experienced and imagined ever. Well, it should be another blog.

Happy new year.
