---
layout: post
title: Unsupervised learning story
tags:
- Self-learning
- Reflection
- English
---


I came to visit my favorite coffee shop in a neighborhood I lived one year ago. Though I used to have some trips with friends and by myself within Vietnam, I had never thought of being YOLO by flying across mountains and ocean in America. Not one time, but a couple of times.

It was an afternoon in a coffee shop, I was working crazily to debug the source code of the latest research paper published in a conference. And suddenly I hear a sound - Qatar airline. A series of memory flushed to me - well, it was my friends’ story with anxiety when they transited at Qatar from Vietnam to France in their first abroad trip. It was not their choice, instead, a secretary who was responsible for our Master program. My previous hunting experience said China Airline was the best to travel to Asia from Europe. But then, I told myself, “Give it a try”. Accidentally, it was Ramadan festival - one of the biggest celebration religion event in Muslim compared as Holiday Seasons of Spring Festival - I knew it by wandering Singapore with a housemate to explore food and culture two years ago. Surprisingly, the airplane company gave a huge promotion discount for all passengers. I got a round trip ticket for the next two weeks later. Last time, it took me a month to search for a ticket. Could not believe it.

I meet the teacher one week later. Indeed, I have no intention to meet him, but there was an invisible force that draws me to Montreal. I was sitting in a coffee shop at Jean Talon and tried to ask myself what would I talk to him. An hour later, I arrived at a university and got lost again. I found someone nearby and realized I was in a totally wrong direction. I fell over in the hall and slowly dragged my leg to another side of the campus. Finally, I was on time. Our conversation last in 15 minutes, I proposed to apply “Van-des-stone” distance to attack the latent vector space in 3-neural-network architecture for learning the shape of priors. There was some paper from other research group proposed ideas followed this direction, nonetheless, not able to reach out to the right connecting ideas.

Several years ago, I started to earn my own perception about generative models after reading the first paper promoted an idea of generative adversarial networks. The idea was quite attractive to people working in privacy and security, especially young apprentice in academia. Eventually, when I started to learn about deep learning by a language of statistics, something was ignited in my mind and it kept reminded me about a “grand” search. I went around almost every libraries, laboratories and local institutions for more information. I asked friends, friends of friends and faculties in school. Quite frustrated, I dropped out and returned to Vietnam for continuing my search on the internet and all textbooks I previously learned, especially complex analysis and algebraic topology. Then eventually I expanded to the online community, then found something but lacks the hands-on skill to conduct proper large scale experiments. So I made a plan to travel by myself and eventually made it one year later.

I was one of the first among people moved to deep learning from Vietnam when it sounded like a myth only known by a small research community and Silicon Valley and San Francisco Bay Area in 2015. But as being warned by the previous researchers, I kept my work in silence and avoided bombarding 99% accuracy in any tech meetup or event. In a search, while attending a public lecture of top researchers, I found a pioneer who I named him as the teacher. I was very hesitant to approach him especially after sharing in-person experiences with so several graduate students and academic researchers from many different schools, but I made a vow when leaving academia. Another time I went crazy (another time). I talked to all friends and instructor about my “next destination”. But it took me 2 years till I gather enough courage.

After that brief meeting, my trip was extended to 3 months. I sit in the center of applied mathematics known as “an ambient lab” because it was so far away from the original office. Though there were several researchers from around the world visiting the lab and my estimation for this number would be up to nearly a hundred, the atmosphere somehow reflected the previous stay while I was France. My office was almost empty all the time. Sometimes I was able to speak with the person sitting next to me. There were lots of posters about topology, but was about ten years ago. After three months, I went outside to learn French and passed two levels after 1 month (still had no idea how I made it - I was so busy because of a research) Another 1-month activity with a hackathon team we earned 10K. During that visit, I was able to attend two conferences and several workshops ranging from 100 to 10,000+++++ Not too bad.


Remembered that in a capstone project to end a training program in 2016, I proposed an idea for a restaurant recommendation system built on unsupervised learning and self-organizing networks called Maven. At that moment, I missed home a lot, especially Vietnamese food. Most often I had to rely on my Singaporean roommate who interned for a Western restaurant for a recommendation. At the end, I burned all $1000 credits and in debt of hundreds of dollars after 1-week deploying several virtual machines for 2TB data. Somehow it was a good prediction of what would happen to me later.

After getting in touch with the teacher, he helped me direct research into more specific domain and source of information. After reading all the materials, I was able to chain information and find a connection between ideas. And one day, I got a lucid dream that I could vividly saw two lighting particle moved from one object to another object - somehow it looked similar to electrical synapse moving between a gap junction. My previous experience in mathematics taught me to learn to trust my own intuition to formulate problems and assumptions. Sometimes it was a flashing image. Sometimes it was an inner voice. Sometimes it was an impulse. Hard to explain, but these are indeed how my research originates - and how I get a sense as it is truly a part of me and keep myself pushing and pushing forwards.

Well, it was quite frustrating when I tried to explain this idea to others because they infer to other concepts of possession associated with exclusive property ownership. But in this context, what I mean is a journey about self-understanding and self-discovery about my ability. Or in short, “know thyself” (though there are several interpretations of what it really means by several schools of ancient and modern philosophical schools)

On a trip from Montreal to San Francisco, my flight was changed at the last minute. I flew with a group of researchers attending the conference. There was a well-known cognitive science professor. Indeed, he was one of the first researchers who I tried to connect several years ago since started my own independent research. I was quite interested in his online course, but unfortunately, most of his content has been removed due to intellectual property. I sent an email but never got a reply. A friend of mine who was a grad student in his institution also made the same complaint. This time I did not have to ask about what he was doing because he kept talking all the time - somehow he reminded my situation when I was “locked” by an idea - really hard to escape because its reflection can be seen everywhere and everything. At that moment, there was a research paper provide a proof what is so-called intelligence. In the tutorial session of conference, presenters keep mentioning about a new framing of unsupervised learning - which makes me feel super irony - would I consider it as a compliment or a reminder of painful memory in an earlier year?

It was quite ridiculous to talk about my research and my situation. Originally, I was from applied mathematics with a branch called applied topology, or, we have another name called topological data analysis, but from statistical learning and machine learning community, people called us with a different name unsupervised learning. The way we interpreted this name is also interesting. Simply, we have no idea for non-supervised method. In some conferences, some researchers proposed to change this name into self-learning or self-organizing. For some aspect of my life, I feel like a data point of some social experiments. In the beginning, I thought myself as an outlier, but eventually, I shifted this idea and moved this into a singularity. To prevent a wrong interpretation similar to what happened to Artificial Intelligence, which was wrongly depicted by  blockbusters to earn billions of dollars and create an illusion of reality. In math, we define an outlier as a data point does not fit to a continuous approximated model applied for a majority of a data set; a singularity is a data point that a function can not be defined, or infinite value for any sensitivity.
