---
layout: post
title: How I view this world
tags:
- Reflection
- Misc
- English
---

I remember my childhood confidence as a kid was destroyed by my father because he compared me to a man with no identity. An imaginary person created by collective incoherent stories of his selective memory. Yes, I beat all kids at the same age, and all neighborhood, in almost every competition - well he never had a chance for a concrete example. My competency was framed by him as aggressiveness. My independence was framed as arrogance by almost everybody in my family.

After three years, the teacher denied almost everything happened and framed me as a person seeking for fame and reputation. I had not expect anything. Indeed, I tried to stay away from academia as much as possible, especially after understanding the “real” game. But I made a vow. It drove me crazily with all signals keep repeated around me in the physical and online world. In the end, my humility was exploited and my eagerness was misunderstood. And I was crazy poor Asian after all-in everything for research.

Those negative narrations slowed me down. One day, I lied down on a bed with boredom. I went outside and suddenly there was a tornado of thoughts and feelings until I recognized by writing everything down.

In a journey of self-discovery, my life struggles turned out to the best social experiments to test assumptions about me as a human. And I leveraged all of those as the means to direct experience by internal feeling. I gave myself lots of things that none of the people around were willing to give it to me. A belief that I could accomplish a goal, and then accumulate experience by very little actions every day to remind myself what I was doing without any expectation. Until one day, when I realized that, well, something had done. Eventually, this momentum grew stronger and stronger. The boundary of perception was broken down layers by layers defined by experience measured level of depth of knowledge and broadness of activities. Through all experience, though I followed Western practice by math, science, and technology and atheist, I eventually realized that lots of my experience strongly resonated to Buddism wisdom.

Two things I learned and verified by my own experience are
1. Practicing compassion and kindness to myself and the world around.
2. Understanding and acknowledging differences between the past, the present, and the future by letting things go and stay in the present.

Every time I was able to step out of an existing order perceived previously, another time I earned another perspective of the world. I found a path that people followed that order able to found and entered a new layer of representation. To me, it turned out the world is a set of observations, or in simple words, dots with respect to time. A story is just your narration drawn by your internal reflection or the past projection of the previous existing perception. It was never about who is right or not right (wrong) - those binary words are relative based on a set of assumptions of a fixed perspective and position.

A story was a line connecting dots. But what if we live in connected components, there are infinitely many numbers way of constructing a story, also the world. The power lies within you. The force is your emotion. Master it, you will unlock horizons of the universe.
