---
layout: post
title: Look backwards - Connecting dots
tags:
- BlueSkin
- FiveYearReview
- English
---

Five years ago, I was a managing director of a tech creative company starting from a small project. I was so interested in psychology and neuroscience such that as soon as I seized all opportunities as a contributor or a follower or a student or whatsoever it was to help me keep updated by science and math in several years. One time, I accidentally found a friend working as a grad student in a top school in the States. Immediately, I initially asked to join a project if he had any.

A few months later, I also moved to grad school with a full 5-year scholarship. It was three months earlier than a normal schedule. I resigned from the previous managing position for a journey to seek knowledge in machine learning - a branch of computer science with statistics and programming. Ironically, I made a mistake which then became a turning point in the next five years with several leaps of faiths.

I dropped out of the Ph.D. program two weeks before an official commencement. One year later, I traveled to San Francisco Bay Area for an intensive training program to enter the tech industry as a data scientist. My plan was mastering all skills holding me back to conduct my independent research in Vietnam. But a trip unexpectedly led to an encounter with a pioneer in deep learning or with another preferred name - artificial intelligence. As a consequence, I decided to follow him as a teacher by a vow - which was a double layer for my commitment. Now or never.

Two years later, after boosting my skills with self-taught courses and in industry, I finally mastered as top 1% of one of the first competitions of healthcare for AI. At the same time, there were around a hundred emails between me and a teacher. The conceptual idea was clear. I finally summon all courage to make the longest trip to the East Coast of North America by myself, especially after trekking to the highest mountain of South East Asia. When arriving, I even did not know if he could see me in-person until a few days later. And that day I fell hard in front of the university hall 10 minutes before meeting time, but slowly dragged myself into the lab on time.

In the beginning, it was a quite freaking experience for an introvert. Imagine alone traveling to a totally strange country without any knowledge about locals in a situation that it would be the only option for putting one brick to a path of a knowledge temple. I could remember how shaking my body was on every trip. And nightmares in my fantasy and reality with volcanoes, earthquakes, hijack, storms, lost, kidnapped, fraudulence, sexual assaults, bureaucracy, discrimination, hatred and bad “breakups”. 

But the list of countries went on and on in Central and North America, Europe and Asia by unexpected hospitality. They are different people who I never met before or a stranger living in different countries, but all are open-minded and warm hearts. Spending time with them is a part of daily lives and learning how they viewed the world helped me understand that we were similar. Suddenly, I realized there was no boundary between countries, cultures, and languages. It felt like all we shared the same home - the Earth.

2019 is my awakening year with a big shift. I got some early signals when visiting a biotech city in the Bay Area and Consumption Exhibition Show in Las Vegas. In the first half of the year, all my brain power was all-in to crack a puzzle of how information is processed in mind by the language of machine learning. I was deeply immersed in research and tuned out all noises to shape a sharp focus. The turning point was when I was writing the first chapter for a book contract with an international publisher in open source tech.

I got struggles when writing the first chapter to educate my audience about the philosophy of human-centric design. To get more materials, I threw myself into AI for social good as a mentor for a hackathon. Then co-lead another pilot project to raise awareness of the young community about climate change, a topic that I was super passionate in my early 20s. This search also awakened me about how technology should be used in society. I decided to suspend a development project as a spin-off of “the research” to shift an entire effort into BlueSkin to hack healthcare and climate change for the rest of the year. 

The moment when I read an article about 1B animals killed in Australia’s bushfire, I knew that I made the right decision. The moment when BlueSkin got started, I was all alone in a research institution, cafeteria, bedroom, library, co-working space, friend’s houses, airports, and much other public space before getting any recognition or knowing whether it would be anything hot shortly. Every time I found another layer of data related to a project, it was so shocking with numbers and figures that my body could probably sake. And it was more frustrating to see how people deny the situation, especially with the status quo.

In the past five years, everything was like a startup. How did I manage life? Luck is all I could say. The uncertainty was always high with up and down, in and out. All I could say was about yesterday and today. Within two days, I could be in two different countries or even continents, in a public space or jump into the top research institution, a hot startup or even big cooperation. Every decision is like an all-in. And lucky, I got through.

