---
layout: post
title: 10 years review - Problem Statement. 
tags:
- review
- English
---
We are entering the Y2 of GenAI explosion with Stable Diffusion, chatGPT, Gemini, and many more coming. This moment has come much faster for ten years with countless rejections for a PhD program, one PhD dropout, several countries world web in tech hubs, research communities and conferences. Or just a super scrappy trip to test a super stupid assumption. France, Singapore, US, Canada, Costa Rica, Switzerland, German, Italy, Taiwan, Phillipines, Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam. My life is a "startup" comedy.

A few months ago, I marked five years review by a book. It was just one chapter of a book written about Augmented Intelligence as a pioneering gen AI researcher. I was very slow and procastinate to publish it. Some questions were too hard to answer and it touched to the most vulnerabilities of human-being and our society. In 2022, I became an early users of GenAI technologies. Quickly then, some became mega viral hits on the internet. And finally I was able to gather enough material for closing the first chapter.


Today, I would like to mark another ten year review by one of the PhD Problem Statements. I did not have a degree, but it did no stop me to turn this into a real actionable plan with a starup mindset. Now those was no longer my theory anymore, but a technology product, severice and fields of study. Sorry for my un-fancy English - I never have money to hire an academic writing assistant or chatGPT that time.

Statement of Purpose
Nguyen Thi Minh Phuong
September 2014

Computational Topology, especially Topological Data Analysis is one of the most novel mathematical tools to help humankind explore the world around not only in breakthrough innovation but also in science discovery. By using persistent homology in algebraic topology, one could generate a barcode which reveals the important insight from topological representation via simplicial complexes.

Furthermore, the big boom in large data extracted from experiment, network, and dynamics such as genomic data, neuro images, etc. is tremendously potential to help researchers answer many of the most fundamental, and challenging questions in modern science, e.g. how the brain works, and interpret the world, which leads to find a treatment of many disorders and diseases, and perhaps, even the key of evolution in the far future.

When conducting a mini-research for an undergraduate thesis, I gets an
opportunity to know about Computational Topology. The story begins when
I study about Gromov-Hausdorff distance, a distance between metric spaces
based on a book of “A course in metric Geometry“ . My main concern is
to understand how to evaluate the metric invariant via the lower bound of
Gromov-Hausdorff distance articulated in . Hence, I read many books, e.g.
“Computation Topology: An Introduction” , and “elementary applied topology
text draft”, and do some computation some simple examples in MAPPER. In
Algebra Seminar, I gain some knowledge of algebraic topology by reading a book
of Allen Hatcher. Gradually, I become more and more exposed to topological
data analysis. Accidentally, it unites my research interest of algebraic geometry
and topology along with the wish to apply knowledge for life. Since then, I
have been always thinking about the beauty of Computational Topology with
an alias “a kaleidoscope”.

This summer I get some first experience as a researcher in the internship
at the center of applied mathematics at l’Ecole Polytechnique, France to study
the diffusion properties of water molecules inside brain tissues. My task was
about configuring a geometrical highly dense model of neuron in brain grey
matter, then extend to construct an adaptive mesh generation in order to solve
a heat equation. After successfully building a model by using the same method
as breath searching technique, which is quickly generating many dendrites at
every level at the same time, although I tried to approach several times by finite
volume method, I did not successfully solve the whole problem. From those
experiences, I have found myself three most important lessons. The first thing is
1 always thinking for the best, but never forget to prepare for the worst, especially
to keep your research going on. Another lesson that I figured out is that trying
hard and manage time are very critical to improve the performance in working.
Lastly, it is necessary to have a very solid background and computational skills
to go as far as you can to explore every corner of the field.

Since I was a little kid, there are two things that I am extremely curious:
the universe and human mind. In my imagination, Topological Data Analysis
is a kind of magical kaleidoscope enabling us to observe the shape of data, and
build a bridge from the land of our understanding to the mysterious world of
knowledge. Furthermore, the internship helps me realize an enthusiastic flame
always burning inside me. It always motivates me every time I feel so difficult
to continue, reminds me how happy I am to find the answers behind the scene,
and encourages me to keep going no matter what happens. Most importantly, it
is to fulfill my wish becoming an artist in mathematics, who applies knowledge
of geometry and topology to reveal the hidden wonders in the physical world. It
is not only a dream, or passion that I’d like to follow, but also the final decision,
and ultimate purpose that I’d to pursue in the future.

As far as I know, Ohio State University is one the best schools of Mathemat-
ics in America, and locates the NSF Mathematical Biosciences Institute. Your program focuses on topology, and has a very strong research group of computa-
tional topology. Furthermore, Dr. Facundo Memoli, one of my undergraduate 
advisors, is a faculty of both the department of Mathematics, and department of
Computer Science and Engineering. Thanks to his great patience and kindness,
I get the foundation of Computational Topology from the beginning with a lot
of support. From those reasons, I would like to apply for the Ph.D program class of 2015 at Ohio State University.

